Ingress lab (#8)
f5devcentral/modern_app_jumpstart_workshop: docs/ingress/virtualserver.md

# VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute Resources

> VirtualServer and VirtualServerRoute resources were added in to NGINX Ingress Controller started in version 1.5 and are implemented via [Customer Resources (CRDs)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/extend-kubernetes/api-extension/custom-resources/).

Author: fixed

```yaml
...
  upstreams:
    - name: spa
      service: spa
      port: 80
    - name: api
      service: api
      port: 8000
...
```

While this configuration meets our requirements for a lab, in a production environment you may need more advanced configurations.  For example, if we knew that the API server could only handle 32 concurent connections then we may want to modify the mainifest to include the *max-conns* attribute:

```yaml
...
  upstreams:
    - name: spa
      service: spa
      port: 80
    - name: api
      service: api
      port: 8000
      max-conns: 32
...
```
For a full list of Upstream attributes, please refer to the [docs](https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/virtualserver-and-virtualserverroute-resources/#upstream).

## HealthCheck
One of the advantages the NGINX Plus Ingress Controller provides is the ability to perform health checks on your upstreams. This can be very useful in situations like the Brewz API which is dependent on a MongoDB database to function correctly.  By checking the APIs' custom /stats API, we can determine if the API server is functioning correctly. 

> In VSCode, open the */manifsts/brewz/virtaul-server.yml* file and add an ErrorPage resource; example below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In VSCode, open the */manifsts/brewz/virtaul-server.yml* file and add a healthCheck resource; example below.
```

```yaml
---
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: brewz
spec:
  host: brewz.f5demo.com
  upstreams:
    - name: spa
      service: spa
      port: 80
    - name: api
      service: api
      port: 8000
      healthCheck:
        enable: true
        path: /api/stats
        interval: 20s
        jitter: 3s
        port: 8000
  routes:
    - path: /
      action:
        pass: spa
    - path: /api
      action:
        pass: api
    - path: /images
      action:
        proxy:
          upstream: api
          rewritePath: /images
```

> Run the following command on the K3s server via the UDF *SSH* or *Web Shell* Access Methods to test that our API services is still up and has a health health check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command on the K3s server via the UDF *SSH* or *Web Shell* Access Methods to test that our API services is still up and has a health check:
```

```bash
# Find the Brewz Access Method's Host
HOST=`curl -s metadata.udf/deployment | jq '.deployment.components[] | select(.name == "k3s") | .accessMethods.https[] | select(.label == "Brewz") | .host' -r`
curl -k https://$HOST/api/products/123
```

# ErrorPage

> While the Brews developers were able to break their monolith application into microservies their APIs are not always returning a JSON response.  A good example is when you lookup a product that does not exist.  The API returns a 400 HTTP response code but the body payload is *""Could not find the product!"*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While the Brews developers were able to break their monolith application into microservices, their APIs are not always returning a JSON response.  A good example is when you lookup a product that does not exist.  The API returns a 400 HTTP response code but the body payload is *"Could not find the product!"*.
```

```bash
# Find the Brewz Access Method's Host
HOST=`curl -s metadata.udf/deployment | jq '.deployment.components[] | select(.name == "k3s") | .accessMethods.https[] | select(.label == "Brewz") | .host' -r`
curl -k https://$HOST/api/products/1234
```

Ideally, the development team will fix this issue in the API code but we can also help by performing a quick fix via our VirtualServer configuration.

In VSCode, open the */manifsts/brewz/virtaul-server.yml* file and add an ErrorPage resource; example below.

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: brewz
spec:
  host: brewz.f5demo.com
  upstreams:
    - name: spa
      service: spa
      port: 80
    - name: api
      service: api
      port: 8000
      healthCheck:
        enable: true
        path: /api/stats
        interval: 20s
        jitter: 3s
        port: 8000
  routes:
    - path: /
      action:
        pass: spa
    - path: /api
      action:
        pass: api
      errorPages:
        - codes: [404]
          return:
            code: 404
            type: application/json
            body: |
              {\"msg\": \"Could not find the product!\"}
            headers:

>             - name: x-debug-original-statues

Reviewer: Not familiar with this header, but is there a typo in it?

Author: fixed

```

OpenSSL will prompt you with questions about your cert request:
- Country Name: US
- State or Province Name: WA
- Locality Name: Seattle
- Organization Name: F5
- Organizational Unit Name: Brewz
- Common Name: brewz.f5demo.com
- Email Address: brewsz@f5demo.com

### Create K8s Secret for the Cert and Key
Now that we have a self-signed certificate, we need to add it to our K8s cluster as a secret.

Run the following commands via SSH on the K3s server using the *SSH* or *Web Shell* UDF Access Methods:

```shell
sudo kubectl create secret tls brewz-tls --key=/etc/ssl/private/brewz-selfsigned.key --cert=/etc/ssl/certs/brewz-selfsigned.crt
```

Now that your secret is created, let's take a look at it.

Run the following command from your laptop:
```shell
kubectl describe secret brewz-tls -n nginx-ingress
```

Your output should look simiar to:
```shell
Name:         brewz-tls
Namespace:    nginx-ingress
Labels:       <none>
Annotations:  <none>

Type:  kubernetes.io/tls

Data
====
tls.crt:  1164 bytes
tls.key:  1704 bytes
```

### Modify VirtualServer Resource
The final step is to update our Brewz VirtualServer resource to leverage the new TLS certificate.

> In VSCode, open the */manifests/brewz/virtual-server.yml* file and add the following fields to the virtualserver:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In VSCode, open the */manifests/brewz/virtual-server.yml* file and add the following fields to the virtual server:
```

```yaml
secret: brewz-tls
redirect:
  enable: true
```

The final file should look like the example below:
```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.nginx.org/v1
kind: VirtualServer
metadata:
  name: brewz
spec:
  host: brewz.f5demo.com
  tls:
    secret: brewz-tls
  upstreams:
    - name: spa
      service: spa
      port: 80
    - name: api
      service: api
      port: 8000
      healthCheck:
        enable: true
        path: /api/stats
        interval: 20s
        jitter: 3s
        port: 8000
  routes:
    - path: /
      action:
        pass: spa
    - path: /api
      action:
        pass: api
      errorPages:
        - codes: [404]
          return:
            code: 404
            type: application/json
            body: |
              {\"msg\": \"Could not find the product!\"}
            headers:

>             - name: x-debug-original-statues

Reviewer: Not familiar with this header, but is there a typo in it?

Author: yes, typo.  This header is from the NGINX docs so I included it in our demo

              value: ${upstream_status}
    - path: /images
      action:
        proxy:
          upstream: api
          rewritePath: /images
```

Now, let's check the status of our virtual server:
```shell
kubectl get vs
```

Notice that the virtual server is now listening on port *80* and *443*.

# Next Steps

> Now that you have a base application deployed, lets take a deeper look at the [VirtualServer resource](virtualserver.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a base application deployed, let's take a deeper look at the [VirtualServer resource](virtualserver.md).
```

Author: fixed
